# Hooks

Hooks allow us to use state inside  of functional components But first we need to import the ``useState`` hook.

```jsx
import React, { useState } from 'react';
```

``useState`` returns a pair, the current state value and s function that lets you change the state.

```jsx
import React, { useState } from 'react';

function Hello() {
    const [name, setName] = usestate('David');

    return <h1>Hello, {name}</h1>
}
```

we created a name state and a setName function. The square brackets syntax is called ``array destructuring``. It assigns the name variable to the current state value, and setName to the functiins that allows to change the state.

## Exercise: Counter App using Hooks

```jsx
import React, {useState} from 'react';

function Counter() {
    const [counter, setCounter] = useState(0);

    function increment() {
        setCounter(counter+1);
    }

    return <div>
    <p>{counter}<p>
    <button onClick={increment}>Increment</button>
    </div>
}

```

## Class Components Lifecycle Methods

React has lifecycle methods for class components which are called when components are mounted, updated or unmounted.

``Mounting`` is the process when a component is rendered on the page.

``Unmounting`` is the process when a component is removed from the page.

``ComponentDidMount`` method is called when a component is rendered on the page.

``ComponentWillUnmounnt`` lifecycle method is called right before the component is removed from the DOM. It can be used to free up resources taken by the component.

``ComponentDidUpdate`` is called when a component is updated in the DOM.

## useEffect Hook

The above lifecycle methods are only available in class components but React provides a special hook called ``useEffect`` to make lifecycle methods available in functional components. It combines the ``ComponentDidMount``, ``ComponentDidUpdate``, ``ComponentWillUnmount`` methods into one.
